an estimated 1.4 million people have
been displaced in Gaza which has been
under intense bombardment from Israel
after Hamas launched a terrorist
attack Israeli air strikes hit a house
in central Gaza Strip Sunday
afternoon Reports say at least six
people were killed the injured are rush
to the
hospital as neighbors and Medics duck to
find
survivors in Rafa in southern Gaza many
homes were also hit by Israeli
strikes 10 houses were destroyed with
children between 2 and 5 years old were
they Fighters if they're looking for
Fighters they're on the borders not in
safe
zones Israel has stepped up its
bombardment of Gaza saying its hitting
targets connected to Hamas terrorists
and other militant
groups to the residents of Gaza City and
north of Gaza City you see that we
intensified our attacks and we will
continue acting like that so move South
a request many have heated but even the
South isn't safe from Israeli
strikes the UN says over 60% of gaza's
population has been displaced and many
are taking refuge in camps like these
lacking basic
facilities civilians face widespread
shortages of clean water fuel medicines
and
food in the southern city of Khan yunes
people have to wait for hours to buy
[Applause]
bread we've been here at the bakery's
door since Dawn only God knows our
suffering if the situation continues the
same way for two or three more days it
will be a catastrophe in the Gaza Strip
children are starving we ask all
countries and Nations to look at us with
some
Humanity drug getting basic supplies
have finally reached Gaza from Egypt but
the eight Falls far short of what is
needed the most urgent needs at the
moment are fuel water food and Medicine
why fuel because fuel is used to produce
water in Gaza there is no drinking water
in Gaza and fuel is used to run the
salination plans so it's very very very
important and so far no fuel has been
allowed into
Gaza and without more urgently needed
supplies the humanitarian crisis can
only get
worse and for more on that agreement to
let more Aid into Gaza I spoke to DW's
Tanya Kramer in the Israeli city of
ashod near
[Music]
Gaza well I mean it has been trickling
in now on Saturday in sundon but uh as
we heard in the report it's far from
being enough to cover the needs of the
2.2 million people living in Gaza the
civilian population so we understand
that there has been another phone call
between US President Joe Biden and the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in the readout it says that
they agreed to allow the continuous flow
of humanitarian Aid into Gaza it's not
specified how much that would be how
often that would be and what it would be
there's still a disp about fuel as well
because that is needed of course
hospitals are saying they're running out
to operate their generators both also of
course generators are needed uh to
operate water pumps Etc so uh this is
very much needed um so that has not been
coming in because uh for almost two
weeks we're now going into the third
week of this War uh all the border
crossings had been uh closed we also
understand there's significant
opposition in Israel by some of the
groups from the far right we've heard
that they don't want any humanitarian
Aid going in as well from some of the
families of the hostages that say there
should be no humanitarian Aid going in
if there are no hostages being released
and indeed this is all taking place
across the backdrop of Israel's military
increasing its strikes on Gaza um what
has the defense Ministry been saying
about the next phase of the
war well Army officials here have been
saying that they
intensify uh the already very massive uh
campaign of air strikes uh on Gaza and
we've seen this also uh from Sunday
onwards um we are still waiting
everybody is still waiting for the
ground uh offensive uh to happen that
troops go in there has been an incident
on Sunday where apparently some Israeli
soldiers went inside Gaza uh one uh uh
Soldier was killed uh the isra the Hamas
militant Hamas group military Wing the
kasan Brigade said that Ambush them uh
so this is uh certainly of concern to
the Israeli army they have also been
called to people in the north of Gaza
again those who have been staying there
to leave and go to the South this is
very controversial obviously because
people are saying you know whether we go
to the South or we staying in our homes
we don't want to be displaced because
there also have been massive air strikes
in the south on runis on Rafa on other
places so it's not safe to go there this
is what people there are saying and we
also heard from the defense minister YF
galland he said you know a ground
Invasion could could last for one two or
three months but the end goal would be
that Hamas there's an end to Hamas but
of course nobody talks about the
political implications what will Gaza
look like what it means uh on the
political terms now on Sunday uh
Netanyahu visited troops stationed near
the border with Lebanon can you tell us
a little bit about what the situation is
like
there
well also there the situation has been
seeing more crossb fire uh between uh
the lianes shared militant group
Hezbollah but also other militant
Palestinian groups there you know
anti-tank fire missiles and Israel has
also been responding to that so there is
a lot of concern uh that there might be
another front opening uh there at the
moment it seems to be kind of contained
if you can say that but uh the the uh
crossb fire has been intensifying uh
there as well and prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has now issued again
yesterday a Stern warning tobah that it
would be a mistake if they would seek to
enter War but of course military
correspondents here also saying no there
could be a miscalculation this is
intensifying over the past days and
something could happen out of there
Israel could also opt to have a
preemptive strike so we don't know what
the strategy is there but we also
understand that again Israel has called
on more community unities in the sou in
the North of Israel to evacuate towards
the center uh of the of the country
Tanya thank you so much for reporting
that is Tanya Kramer for us
there and we're now joined by Israeli
military spokesperson Peter leoner
welcome back to DW we understand the IDF
has intensified its air strikes on Gaza
can you tell me how many targets you
have hit in the past 24 hours and how
that compares to previous days give us a
sense of the scale
here yeah I'd like just to be a bit more
accurate are we are intens intensifying
our attacks on Hamas the terrorist
organization that launched war against
Israel on the 7th of October indeed we
are conducting hundreds of strikes every
day against the infrastructure that they
have positioned pre-positioned and
embedded within the civilian Arena
putting at the the entire population of
Gaza at risk We are continuing to call
to the people of Gaza and specifically
the northern Gaza strip to evacuate
towards the south in order to try and
keep them out of Harm's Way while we
root out Hamas so in these uh strikes
that the Israeli Army has been carrying
out over the past two weeks what impact
have they had on hamas's
capabilities indeed we see uh Hamas in a
state of disarray we see them in a
situation where they have no idea what
what is going on U mostly because they
are hiding they are cowards they are
hiding and they are trying to sacrifice
the people of Gaza we are destroying the
command and control positions we are
killing their terrorist leaders from and
and targeting the leaders who
perpetrated planned and executed the
attack of 7th of October um and that is
it is showing itself and we are seeing a
decline in their ability to launch
rockets against us and indeed we have a
full intention to destroy hamas's
capability and making sure they can
never ever use the Gaza
as a staging ground for attacks against
Israel and the people of Israel again
now the Palestinian Health Ministry says
at least
4,600 people are dead uh three times as
many wounded how many of these were
Hamas
militants um hamas's propaganda Ministry
of Health says that U we need to be very
very cautious at accepting I would say
even relying on any sources coming out
of Gaza specific spefically hamas's
Ministries um so I won't suggest that
there is any reason to actually comment
on what Hamas is saying indeed we are
conducting strikes number for
us I no I would not even comment on that
number I would say there is a reality on
the ground in Gaza where Hamas has
prepositioned its capabilities within
the civilian Arena when they put uh
explosive uh drones on the roofs of
housetops they are jeopardizing that
those housetops we are operating within
the realm of the laws of armed conflict
we are calling for people to evacuate
areas to get them out of Harm's Way as a
temporary me measure and Hamas is trying
to keep them In Harm's Way and sacrifice
them okay so while you weigh on and AC
accept for face value what Hamas is
telling you because of these numbers we
need to be very very cautious because
this is an organization that has no
problem in butchering babies in their
bedrooms so why would they have a
problem in lying to the world media okay
we'll leave it there thank you Peter
Lerner from the
IDF good
day